README.md, before:

# CodexMonitor

![CodexMonitor](screenshot.png)

CodexMonitor is a Tauri app for orchestrating multiple Codex agents across local workspaces. It provides a sidebar to manage projects, a home screen for quick actions, and a conversation view backed by the Codex app-server protocol.

## Features

### Workspaces & Threads

- Add and persist workspaces, group/sort them, and jump into recent agent activity from the home dashboard.
- Spawn one `codex app-server` per workspace, resume threads, and track unread/running state.
- Worktree and clone agents for isolated work; worktrees live under the app data directory (legacy `.codex-worktrees` supported).
- Thread management: pin/rename/archive/copy, per-thread drafts, and stop/interrupt in-flight turns.
- Optional remote backend (daemon) mode for running Codex on another machine.
- Remote setup helpers for self-hosted connectivity (Orbit actions + Tailscale detection/host bootstrap for TCP mode).

### Composer & Agent Controls

- Compose with queueing plus image attachments (picker, drag/drop, paste).
- Autocomplete for skills (`$`), prompts (`/prompts:`), reviews (`/review`), and file paths (`@`).
- Model picker, collaboration modes (when enabled), reasoning effort, access mode, and context usage ring.
- Dictation with hold-to-talk shortcuts and live waveform (Whisper).
- Render reasoning/tool/diff items and handle approval prompts.

### Git & GitHub

- Diff stats, staged/unstaged file diffs, revert/stage controls, and commit log.
- Branch list with checkout/create plus upstream ahead/behind counts.
- GitHub Issues and Pull Requests via `gh` (lists, diffs, comments) and open commits/PRs in the browser.
- PR composer: "Ask PR" to send PR context into a new agent thread.

### Files & Prompts

- File tree with search, file-type icons, and Reveal in Finder/Explorer.
- Prompt library for global/workspace prompts: create/edit/delete/move and run in current or new threads.

### UI & Experience

- Resizable sidebar/right/plan/terminal/debug panels with persisted sizes.
- Responsive layouts (desktop/tablet/phone) with tabbed navigation.
- Sidebar usage and credits meter for account rate limits plus a home usage snapshot.
- Terminal dock with multiple tabs for background commands (experimental).
- In-app updates with toast-driven download/install, debug panel copy/clear, sound notifications, plus platform-specific window effects (macOS overlay title bar + vibrancy) and a reduced transparency toggle.

## Forge

- Canonical Forge module docs: [docs/forge.md](docs/forge.md).
- Forge panel remains available from the sidebar header even when no project is selected.
- No-project mode is explicit and blocking: Forge shows `Select a project first to use Forge.` and disables template, plan, execution, and clean-progress actions.
- With a selected project, Forge installs/uninstalls bundled templates into workspace-scoped `.agent` artifacts, returns normalized plan prompts, and lists workspace plans with `state-v2` task status joins.

## Requirements

- Node.js + npm
- Rust toolchain (stable)
- CMake (required for native dependencies; dictation/Whisper uses it)
- LLVM/Clang (required on Windows to build dictation dependencies via bindgen)
- Codex CLI installed and available as `codex` in `PATH` (or configure a custom Codex binary in app/workspace settings)
- Git CLI (used for worktree operations)
- GitHub CLI (`gh`) for GitHub Issues/PR integrations (optional)

If you hit native build errors, run:

```bash
npm run doctor
```

## Getting Started

Install dependencies:

```bash
npm install
```

Run in dev mode:

```bash
npm run tauri:dev
```

## iOS Support (WIP)

iOS support is currently in progress.

- Current status: mobile layout runs, remote backend flow is wired, and iOS defaults to remote backend mode.
- Current limits: terminal and dictation remain unavailable on mobile builds.
- Desktop behavior is unchanged: macOS/Linux/Windows remain local-first unless remote mode is explicitly selected.

### iOS + Tailscale Setup (TCP)

Use this when connecting the iOS app to a desktop-hosted daemon over your Tailscale tailnet.

1. Install and sign in to Tailscale on both desktop and iPhone (same tailnet).
2. On desktop CodexMonitor, open `Settings > Server`.
3. Keep `Remote provider` set to `TCP (wip)`.
4. Set a `Remote backend token`.
5. Start the desktop daemon with `Start daemon` (in `Mobile access daemon`).
6. In `Tailscale helper`, use `Detect Tailscale` and note the suggested host (for example `your-mac.your-tailnet.ts.net:4732`).
7. On iOS CodexMonitor, open `Settings > Server`.
8. Set `Connection type` to `TCP`.
9. Enter the desktop Tailscale host and the same token.
10. Tap `Connect & test` and confirm it succeeds.

Notes:

- The desktop daemon must stay running while iOS is connected.
- If the test fails, confirm both devices are online in Tailscale and that host/token match desktop settings.
- If you want to use Orbit instead of Tailscale TCP, switch `Connection type` to `Orbit` on iOS and use your desktop Orbit websocket URL/token.

### iOS Prerequisites

- Xcode + Command Line Tools installed.
- Rust iOS targets installed:

```bash
rustup target add aarch64-apple-ios aarch64-apple-ios-sim
# Optional (Intel Mac simulator builds):
rustup target add x86_64-apple-ios
```

- Apple signing configured (development team).
  - Set `bundle.iOS.developmentTeam` in `src-tauri/tauri.ios.conf.json` (preferred), or
  - pass `--team <TEAM_ID>` to the device script.

### Run on iOS Simulator

```bash
./scripts/build_run_ios.sh
```

Options:

- `--simulator "<name>"` to target a specific simulator.
- `--target aarch64-sim|x86_64-sim` to override architecture.
- `--skip-build` to reuse the current app bundle.
- `--no-clean` to preserve `src-tauri/gen/apple/build` between builds.

### Run on USB Device

List discoverable devices:

```bash
./scripts/build_run_ios_device.sh --list-devices
```

Build, install, and launch on a specific device:

```bash
./scripts/build_run_ios_device.sh --device "<device name or identifier>" --team <TEAM_ID>
```

Additional options:

- `--target aarch64` to override architecture.
- `--skip-build` to reuse the current app bundle.
- `--bundle-id <id>` to launch a non-default bundle identifier.

First-time device setup usually requires:

1. iPhone unlocked and trusted with this Mac.
2. Developer Mode enabled on iPhone.
3. Pairing/signing approved in Xcode at least once.

If signing is not ready yet, open Xcode from the script flow:

```bash
./scripts/build_run_ios_device.sh --open-xcode
```

### iOS TestFlight Release (Scripted)

Use the end-to-end script to archive, upload, configure compliance, assign beta group, and submit for beta review.

```bash
./scripts/release_testflight_ios.sh
```

The script auto-loads release metadata from `.testflight.local.env` (gitignored).
For new setups, copy `.testflight.local.env.example` to `.testflight.local.env` and fill values.

## Release Build

Build the production Tauri bundle:

```bash
npm run tauri:build
```

Artifacts will be in `src-tauri/target/release/bundle/` (platform-specific subfolders).

### Windows (opt-in)

Windows builds are opt-in and use a separate Tauri config file to avoid macOS-only window effects.

```bash
npm run tauri:build:win
```

Artifacts will be in:

- `src-tauri/target/release/bundle/nsis/` (installer exe)
- `src-tauri/target/release/bundle/msi/` (msi)
 
Note: building from source on Windows requires LLVM/Clang (for `bindgen` / `libclang`) in addition to CMake.

## Type Checking

Run the TypeScript checker (no emit):

```bash
npm run typecheck
```

Note: `npm run build` also runs `tsc` before bundling the frontend.

## Validation

Recommended validation commands:

```bash
npm run lint
npm run test
npm run typecheck
cd src-tauri && cargo check
```

## Codebase Navigation

For task-oriented file lookup ("if you need X, edit Y"), use:

- `docs/codebase-map.md`

## Project Structure

```
src/
  features/         feature-sliced UI + hooks
  features/app/bootstrap/      app bootstrap orchestration
  features/app/orchestration/  app layout/thread/workspace orchestration
  features/threads/hooks/threadReducer/  thread reducer slices
  services/         Tauri IPC wrapper
  styles/           split CSS by area
  types.ts          shared types
src-tauri/
  src/lib.rs        Tauri app backend command registry
  src/bin/codex_monitor_daemon.rs  remote daemon JSON-RPC process
  src/bin/codex_monitor_daemon/rpc/  daemon RPC domain handlers
  src/shared/       shared backend core used by app + daemon
  src/shared/git_ui_core/      git/github shared core modules
  src/shared/workspaces_core/  workspace/worktree shared core modules
  src/workspaces/   workspace/worktree adapters
  src/codex/        codex app-server adapters
  src/files/        file adapters
  tauri.conf.json   window configuration
```

## Notes

- Workspaces persist to `workspaces.json` under the app data directory.
- App settings persist to `settings.json` under the app data directory (theme, backend mode/provider, remote endpoints/tokens, Codex path, default access mode, UI scale).
- Feature settings are supported in the UI and synced to `$CODEX_HOME/config.toml` (or `~/.codex/config.toml`) on load/save. Stable: Collaboration modes (`features.collaboration_modes`), personality (`personality`), Steer mode (`features.steer`), and Background terminal (`features.unified_exec`). Experimental: Collab mode (`features.collab`) and Apps (`features.apps`).
- On launch and on window focus, the app reconnects and refreshes thread lists for each workspace.
- Threads are restored by filtering `thread/list` results using the workspace `cwd`.
- Selecting a thread always calls `thread/resume` to refresh messages from disk.
- CLI sessions appear if their `cwd` matches the workspace path; they are not live-streamed unless resumed.
- The app uses `codex app-server` over stdio; see `src-tauri/src/lib.rs` and `src-tauri/src/codex/`.
- The remote daemon entrypoint is `src-tauri/src/bin/codex_monitor_daemon.rs`; RPC routing lives in `src-tauri/src/bin/codex_monitor_daemon/rpc.rs` and domain handlers in `src-tauri/src/bin/codex_monitor_daemon/rpc/`.
- Shared domain logic lives in `src-tauri/src/shared/` (notably `src-tauri/src/shared/git_ui_core/` and `src-tauri/src/shared/workspaces_core/`).
- Codex home resolves from workspace settings (if set), then legacy `.codexmonitor/`, then `$CODEX_HOME`/`~/.codex`.
- Worktree agents live under the app data directory (`worktrees/<workspace-id>`); legacy `.codex-worktrees/` paths remain supported, and the app no longer edits repo `.gitignore` files.
- UI state (panel sizes, reduced transparency toggle, recent thread activity) is stored in `localStorage`.
- Custom prompts load from `$CODEX_HOME/prompts` (or `~/.codex/prompts`) with optional frontmatter description/argument hints.

## Tauri IPC Surface

Frontend calls live in `src/services/tauri.ts` and map to commands in `src-tauri/src/lib.rs`. The current surface includes:

- Settings/config/files: `get_app_settings`, `update_app_settings`, `get_codex_config_path`, `get_config_model`, `file_read`, `file_write`, `codex_doctor`, `menu_set_accelerators`.
- Workspaces/worktrees: `list_workspaces`, `is_workspace_path_dir`, `add_workspace`, `add_clone`, `add_worktree`, `worktree_setup_status`, `worktree_setup_mark_ran`, `rename_worktree`, `rename_worktree_upstream`, `apply_worktree_changes`, `update_workspace_settings`, `update_workspace_codex_bin`, `remove_workspace`, `remove_worktree`, `connect_workspace`, `list_workspace_files`, `read_workspace_file`, `open_workspace_in`, `get_open_app_icon`.
- Threads/turns/reviews: `start_thread`, `fork_thread`, `compact_thread`, `list_threads`, `resume_thread`, `archive_thread`, `set_thread_name`, `send_user_message`, `turn_interrupt`, `respond_to_server_request`, `start_review`, `remember_approval_rule`, `get_commit_message_prompt`, `generate_commit_message`, `generate_run_metadata`.
- Account/models/collaboration: `model_list`, `account_rate_limits`, `account_read`, `skills_list`, `apps_list`, `collaboration_mode_list`, `codex_login`, `codex_login_cancel`, `list_mcp_server_status`.
- Git/GitHub: `get_git_status`, `list_git_roots`, `get_git_diffs`, `get_git_log`, `get_git_commit_diff`, `get_git_remote`, `stage_git_file`, `stage_git_all`, `unstage_git_file`, `revert_git_file`, `revert_git_all`, `commit_git`, `push_git`, `pull_git`, `fetch_git`, `sync_git`, `list_git_branches`, `checkout_git_branch`, `create_git_branch`, `get_github_issues`, `get_github_pull_requests`, `get_github_pull_request_diff`, `get_github_pull_request_comments`.
- Prompts: `prompts_list`, `prompts_create`, `prompts_update`, `prompts_delete`, `prompts_move`, `prompts_workspace_dir`, `prompts_global_dir`.
- Terminal/dictation/notifications/usage: `terminal_open`, `terminal_write`, `terminal_resize`, `terminal_close`, `dictation_model_status`, `dictation_download_model`, `dictation_cancel_download`, `dictation_remove_model`, `dictation_request_permission`, `dictation_start`, `dictation_stop`, `dictation_cancel`, `send_notification_fallback`, `is_macos_debug_build`, `local_usage_snapshot`.
- Remote backend helpers: `orbit_connect_test`, `orbit_sign_in_start`, `orbit_sign_in_poll`, `orbit_sign_out`, `orbit_runner_start`, `orbit_runner_stop`, `orbit_runner_status`, `tailscale_status`, `tailscale_daemon_command_preview`, `tailscale_daemon_start`, `tailscale_daemon_stop`, `tailscale_daemon_status`.

Commit message:

forge(forge-execution-stability-project-gate): task-2 Make task-row running status single-source and deterministic

README.md, after:

# CodexMonitor

![CodexMonitor](screenshot.png)

CodexMonitor is a Tauri app for orchestrating multiple Codex agents across local workspaces. It provides a sidebar to manage projects, a home screen for quick actions, and a conversation view backed by the Codex app-server protocol.

## Features

### Workspaces & Threads

- Add and persist workspaces, group/sort them, and jump into recent agent activity from the home dashboard.
- Spawn one `codex app-server` per workspace, resume threads, and track unread/running state.
- Worktree and clone agents for isolated work; worktrees live under the app data directory (legacy `.codex-worktrees` supported).
- Thread management: pin/rename/archive/copy, per-thread drafts, and stop/interrupt in-flight turns.
- Optional remote backend (daemon) mode for running Codex on another machine.
- Remote setup helpers for self-hosted connectivity (Orbit actions + Tailscale detection/host bootstrap for TCP mode).

### Composer & Agent Controls

- Compose with queueing plus image attachments (picker, drag/drop, paste).
- Autocomplete for skills (`$`), prompts (`/prompts:`), reviews (`/review`), and file paths (`@`).
- Model picker, collaboration modes (when enabled), reasoning effort, access mode, and context usage ring.
- Dictation with hold-to-talk shortcuts and live waveform (Whisper).
- Render reasoning/tool/diff items and handle approval prompts.

### Git & GitHub

- Diff stats, staged/unstaged file diffs, revert/stage controls, and commit log.
- Branch list with checkout/create plus upstream ahead/behind counts.
- GitHub Issues and Pull Requests via `gh` (lists, diffs, comments) and open commits/PRs in the browser.
- PR composer: "Ask PR" to send PR context into a new agent thread.

### Files & Prompts

- File tree with search, file-type icons, and Reveal in Finder/Explorer.
- Prompt library for global/workspace prompts: create/edit/delete/move and run in current or new threads.

### UI & Experience

- Resizable sidebar/right/plan/terminal/debug panels with persisted sizes.
- Responsive layouts (desktop/tablet/phone) with tabbed navigation.
- Sidebar usage and credits meter for account rate limits plus a home usage snapshot.
- Terminal dock with multiple tabs for background commands (experimental).
- In-app updates with toast-driven download/install, debug panel copy/clear, sound notifications, plus platform-specific window effects (macOS overlay title bar + vibrancy) and a reduced transparency toggle.

## Forge

- Canonical Forge module docs: [docs/forge.md](docs/forge.md).
- Forge panel remains available from the sidebar header even when no project is selected.
- No-project mode is explicit and blocking: Forge shows `Select a project first to use Forge.` and disables template, plan, execution, and clean-progress actions.
- During execution, Forge renders exactly one running task row from live `runningInfo`; non-active stale `in_progress` rows are demoted to `completed` (all phases complete) or `pending` (otherwise).
- With a selected project, Forge installs/uninstalls bundled templates into workspace-scoped `.agent` artifacts, returns normalized plan prompts, and lists workspace plans with `state-v2` task status joins.

## Requirements

- Node.js + npm
- Rust toolchain (stable)
- CMake (required for native dependencies; dictation/Whisper uses it)
- LLVM/Clang (required on Windows to build dictation dependencies via bindgen)
- Codex CLI installed and available as `codex` in `PATH` (or configure a custom Codex binary in app/workspace settings)
- Git CLI (used for worktree operations)
- GitHub CLI (`gh`) for GitHub Issues/PR integrations (optional)

If you hit native build errors, run:

```bash
npm run doctor
```

## Getting Started

Install dependencies:

```bash
npm install
```

Run in dev mode:

```bash
npm run tauri:dev
```

## iOS Support (WIP)

iOS support is currently in progress.

- Current status: mobile layout runs, remote backend flow is wired, and iOS defaults to remote backend mode.
- Current limits: terminal and dictation remain unavailable on mobile builds.
- Desktop behavior is unchanged: macOS/Linux/Windows remain local-first unless remote mode is explicitly selected.

### iOS + Tailscale Setup (TCP)

Use this when connecting the iOS app to a desktop-hosted daemon over your Tailscale tailnet.

1. Install and sign in to Tailscale on both desktop and iPhone (same tailnet).
2. On desktop CodexMonitor, open `Settings > Server`.
3. Keep `Remote provider` set to `TCP (wip)`.
4. Set a `Remote backend token`.
5. Start the desktop daemon with `Start daemon` (in `Mobile access daemon`).
6. In `Tailscale helper`, use `Detect Tailscale` and note the suggested host (for example `your-mac.your-tailnet.ts.net:4732`).
7. On iOS CodexMonitor, open `Settings > Server`.
8. Set `Connection type` to `TCP`.
9. Enter the desktop Tailscale host and the same token.
10. Tap `Connect & test` and confirm it succeeds.

Notes:

- The desktop daemon must stay running while iOS is connected.
- If the test fails, confirm both devices are online in Tailscale and that host/token match desktop settings.
- If you want to use Orbit instead of Tailscale TCP, switch `Connection type` to `Orbit` on iOS and use your desktop Orbit websocket URL/token.

### iOS Prerequisites

- Xcode + Command Line Tools installed.
- Rust iOS targets installed:

```bash
rustup target add aarch64-apple-ios aarch64-apple-ios-sim
# Optional (Intel Mac simulator builds):
rustup target add x86_64-apple-ios
```

- Apple signing configured (development team).
  - Set `bundle.iOS.developmentTeam` in `src-tauri/tauri.ios.conf.json` (preferred), or
  - pass `--team <TEAM_ID>` to the device script.

### Run on iOS Simulator

```bash
./scripts/build_run_ios.sh
```

Options:

- `--simulator "<name>"` to target a specific simulator.
- `--target aarch64-sim|x86_64-sim` to override architecture.
- `--skip-build` to reuse the current app bundle.
- `--no-clean` to preserve `src-tauri/gen/apple/build` between builds.

### Run on USB Device

List discoverable devices:

```bash
./scripts/build_run_ios_device.sh --list-devices
```

Build, install, and launch on a specific device:

```bash
./scripts/build_run_ios_device.sh --device "<device name or identifier>" --team <TEAM_ID>
```

Additional options:

- `--target aarch64` to override architecture.
- `--skip-build` to reuse the current app bundle.
- `--bundle-id <id>` to launch a non-default bundle identifier.

First-time device setup usually requires:

1. iPhone unlocked and trusted with this Mac.
2. Developer Mode enabled on iPhone.
3. Pairing/signing approved in Xcode at least once.

If signing is not ready yet, open Xcode from the script flow:

```bash
./scripts/build_run_ios_device.sh --open-xcode
```

### iOS TestFlight Release (Scripted)

Use the end-to-end script to archive, upload, configure compliance, assign beta group, and submit for beta review.

```bash
./scripts/release_testflight_ios.sh
```

The script auto-loads release metadata from `.testflight.local.env` (gitignored).
For new setups, copy `.testflight.local.env.example` to `.testflight.local.env` and fill values.

## Release Build

Build the production Tauri bundle:

```bash
npm run tauri:build
```

Artifacts will be in `src-tauri/target/release/bundle/` (platform-specific subfolders).

### Windows (opt-in)

Windows builds are opt-in and use a separate Tauri config file to avoid macOS-only window effects.

```bash
npm run tauri:build:win
```

Artifacts will be in:

- `src-tauri/target/release/bundle/nsis/` (installer exe)
- `src-tauri/target/release/bundle/msi/` (msi)
 
Note: building from source on Windows requires LLVM/Clang (for `bindgen` / `libclang`) in addition to CMake.

## Type Checking

Run the TypeScript checker (no emit):

```bash
npm run typecheck
```

Note: `npm run build` also runs `tsc` before bundling the frontend.

## Validation

Recommended validation commands:

```bash
npm run lint
npm run test
npm run typecheck
cd src-tauri && cargo check
```

## Codebase Navigation

For task-oriented file lookup ("if you need X, edit Y"), use:

- `docs/codebase-map.md`

## Project Structure

```
src/
  features/         feature-sliced UI + hooks
  features/app/bootstrap/      app bootstrap orchestration
  features/app/orchestration/  app layout/thread/workspace orchestration
  features/threads/hooks/threadReducer/  thread reducer slices
  services/         Tauri IPC wrapper
  styles/           split CSS by area
  types.ts          shared types
src-tauri/
  src/lib.rs        Tauri app backend command registry
  src/bin/codex_monitor_daemon.rs  remote daemon JSON-RPC process
  src/bin/codex_monitor_daemon/rpc/  daemon RPC domain handlers
  src/shared/       shared backend core used by app + daemon
  src/shared/git_ui_core/      git/github shared core modules
  src/shared/workspaces_core/  workspace/worktree shared core modules
  src/workspaces/   workspace/worktree adapters
  src/codex/        codex app-server adapters
  src/files/        file adapters
  tauri.conf.json   window configuration
```

## Notes

- Workspaces persist to `workspaces.json` under the app data directory.
- App settings persist to `settings.json` under the app data directory (theme, backend mode/provider, remote endpoints/tokens, Codex path, default access mode, UI scale).
- Feature settings are supported in the UI and synced to `$CODEX_HOME/config.toml` (or `~/.codex/config.toml`) on load/save. Stable: Collaboration modes (`features.collaboration_modes`), personality (`personality`), Steer mode (`features.steer`), and Background terminal (`features.unified_exec`). Experimental: Collab mode (`features.collab`) and Apps (`features.apps`).
- On launch and on window focus, the app reconnects and refreshes thread lists for each workspace.
- Threads are restored by filtering `thread/list` results using the workspace `cwd`.
- Selecting a thread always calls `thread/resume` to refresh messages from disk.
- CLI sessions appear if their `cwd` matches the workspace path; they are not live-streamed unless resumed.
- The app uses `codex app-server` over stdio; see `src-tauri/src/lib.rs` and `src-tauri/src/codex/`.
- The remote daemon entrypoint is `src-tauri/src/bin/codex_monitor_daemon.rs`; RPC routing lives in `src-tauri/src/bin/codex_monitor_daemon/rpc.rs` and domain handlers in `src-tauri/src/bin/codex_monitor_daemon/rpc/`.
- Shared domain logic lives in `src-tauri/src/shared/` (notably `src-tauri/src/shared/git_ui_core/` and `src-tauri/src/shared/workspaces_core/`).
- Codex home resolves from workspace settings (if set), then legacy `.codexmonitor/`, then `$CODEX_HOME`/`~/.codex`.
- Worktree agents live under the app data directory (`worktrees/<workspace-id>`); legacy `.codex-worktrees/` paths remain supported, and the app no longer edits repo `.gitignore` files.
- UI state (panel sizes, reduced transparency toggle, recent thread activity) is stored in `localStorage`.
- Custom prompts load from `$CODEX_HOME/prompts` (or `~/.codex/prompts`) with optional frontmatter description/argument hints.

## Tauri IPC Surface

Frontend calls live in `src/services/tauri.ts` and map to commands in `src-tauri/src/lib.rs`. The current surface includes:

- Settings/config/files: `get_app_settings`, `update_app_settings`, `get_codex_config_path`, `get_config_model`, `file_read`, `file_write`, `codex_doctor`, `menu_set_accelerators`.
- Workspaces/worktrees: `list_workspaces`, `is_workspace_path_dir`, `add_workspace`, `add_clone`, `add_worktree`, `worktree_setup_status`, `worktree_setup_mark_ran`, `rename_worktree`, `rename_worktree_upstream`, `apply_worktree_changes`, `update_workspace_settings`, `update_workspace_codex_bin`, `remove_workspace`, `remove_worktree`, `connect_workspace`, `list_workspace_files`, `read_workspace_file`, `open_workspace_in`, `get_open_app_icon`.
- Threads/turns/reviews: `start_thread`, `fork_thread`, `compact_thread`, `list_threads`, `resume_thread`, `archive_thread`, `set_thread_name`, `send_user_message`, `turn_interrupt`, `respond_to_server_request`, `start_review`, `remember_approval_rule`, `get_commit_message_prompt`, `generate_commit_message`, `generate_run_metadata`.
- Account/models/collaboration: `model_list`, `account_rate_limits`, `account_read`, `skills_list`, `apps_list`, `collaboration_mode_list`, `codex_login`, `codex_login_cancel`, `list_mcp_server_status`.
- Git/GitHub: `get_git_status`, `list_git_roots`, `get_git_diffs`, `get_git_log`, `get_git_commit_diff`, `get_git_remote`, `stage_git_file`, `stage_git_all`, `unstage_git_file`, `revert_git_file`, `revert_git_all`, `commit_git`, `push_git`, `pull_git`, `fetch_git`, `sync_git`, `list_git_branches`, `checkout_git_branch`, `create_git_branch`, `get_github_issues`, `get_github_pull_requests`, `get_github_pull_request_diff`, `get_github_pull_request_comments`.
- Prompts: `prompts_list`, `prompts_create`, `prompts_update`, `prompts_delete`, `prompts_move`, `prompts_workspace_dir`, `prompts_global_dir`.
- Terminal/dictation/notifications/usage: `terminal_open`, `terminal_write`, `terminal_resize`, `terminal_close`, `dictation_model_status`, `dictation_download_model`, `dictation_cancel_download`, `dictation_remove_model`, `dictation_request_permission`, `dictation_start`, `dictation_stop`, `dictation_cancel`, `send_notification_fallback`, `is_macos_debug_build`, `local_usage_snapshot`.
- Remote backend helpers: `orbit_connect_test`, `orbit_sign_in_start`, `orbit_sign_in_poll`, `orbit_sign_out`, `orbit_runner_start`, `orbit_runner_stop`, `orbit_runner_status`, `tailscale_status`, `tailscale_daemon_command_preview`, `tailscale_daemon_start`, `tailscale_daemon_stop`, `tailscale_daemon_status`.
