src-tauri/resources/forge/templates/test-first-loop/prompts/execute.md, before:

# Mode: execute

You are executing a single task from a development plan. Your context is cleared
between tasks - everything you need is below.

## Runtime contract (read first)

`Forge` is the Forge backend orchestrator driving this loop.

- Forge selects the current task/phase from `plans/{{plan_id}}/state.json`.
- Forge starts fresh task-scoped threads, runs backend checks, and manages final task commits.
- Your job is to implement the requested phase and keep `state.json`/`progress.md` accurate.

---

## Plan

**Goal:** {{goal}}
**Tech Stack:** {{tech_stack}}
**Constraints:**
{{constraints}}

## Progress (iteration {{iteration}})

{{summary}}

## All tasks

{{task_list}}

## Learnings from previous iterations

{{progress_notes}}

---

## YOUR TASK: {{current_task_id}} - {{current_task_name}}

{{current_task_description}}

## Current phase: {{current_phase_id}} - {{current_phase_title}}

**Phase goal:** {{current_phase_goal}}

{{current_phase_description}}

**Files:** {{current_task_files}}

**Verification:**
{{current_task_verification}}

**Attempts so far:** {{current_task_attempts}}
{{current_task_previous_notes}}

**What dependencies produced:**
{{dependency_notes}}

---

## Phase protocol (important)

1. Implement the current phase for the current task.
2. Update `plans/{{plan_id}}/state.json`:
   - Set this phase `status` to `completed` (or `blocked`/`failed` if truly stuck).
   - Increment this phase `attempts`.
   - Append concise notes (paths/decisions).
   - Keep task `status` as `in_progress` while handing off to Forge checks.
3. Forge will run backend checks after your phase is marked complete.
   - Forge finalizes phase/task completion statuses after checks.
   - If checks fail, Forge reopens the phase and you retry.
   - If checks pass on the last phase, Forge creates the task commit and records `commit_sha`.
4. Do NOT run `git` commands yourself in execute mode.
   - Do NOT run `git add`, `git commit`, `git commit --amend`, or `git push`.
   - Do NOT set `commit_sha` in `state.json`; Forge manages it.
5. End your message with this exact single line marker:

```text
[[cm_forge:done plan={{plan_id}} task={{current_task_id}} phase={{current_phase_id}}]]
```
   - Use the exact `plan/task/phase` values shown above. Do not reuse marker values from a previous task or phase.

---

## After implementation - update state

Update `plans/{{plan_id}}/state.json` following these rules:

1. Keep your task's `status` as `in_progress` while implementing (or `failed` if truly stuck after multiple attempts)
2. Write `notes` explaining what you did - file paths, decisions, config values. The next
   iteration has no memory of you; these notes are its only link to your work.
3. Update `summary` - orient a newcomer: what's done, what's next (max 300 chars)
4. Increment your task's `attempts` count
5. Do NOT change any other task's status
6. Do NOT modify `plan.json` - it is immutable
7. Do NOT set `commit_sha`; Forge writes it after final-phase checks pass.

If you learned something useful beyond this task (a gotcha, a project convention,
a tool quirk), append a one-liner to `plans/{{plan_id}}/progress.md`:

```text
- {{date}} iter {{iteration}}: <what you learned>
```

Commit message:

forge(forge-test-first-loop-template): task-2 Define 6-phase workflow, completion criteria, and AI review gate

src-tauri/resources/forge/templates/test-first-loop/prompts/execute.md, after:

# Mode: execute

You are executing a single task from a development plan. Your context is cleared
between tasks - everything you need is below.

## Runtime contract (read first)

`Forge` is the Forge backend orchestrator driving this loop.

- Forge selects the current task/phase from `plans/{{plan_id}}/state.json`.
- Forge starts fresh task-scoped threads, runs backend checks, and manages final task commits.
- Your job is to implement the requested phase and keep `state.json`/`progress.md` accurate.

---

## Plan

**Goal:** {{goal}}
**Tech Stack:** {{tech_stack}}
**Constraints:**
{{constraints}}

## Progress (iteration {{iteration}})

{{summary}}

## All tasks

{{task_list}}

## Learnings from previous iterations

{{progress_notes}}

---

## YOUR TASK: {{current_task_id}} - {{current_task_name}}

{{current_task_description}}

## Current phase: {{current_phase_id}} - {{current_phase_title}}

**Phase goal:** {{current_phase_goal}}

{{current_phase_description}}

Treat the phase description above as the required completion checklist for this phase.
Before handoff, explicitly verify each completion check in your notes.
If any completion check is unmet, do not mark the phase `completed`; use `in_progress`, `blocked`, or `failed` as appropriate.

**Files:** {{current_task_files}}

**Verification:**
{{current_task_verification}}

**Attempts so far:** {{current_task_attempts}}
{{current_task_previous_notes}}

**What dependencies produced:**
{{dependency_notes}}

---

## Phase protocol (important)

1. Implement the current phase for the current task.
2. Verify all completion checks in the current phase description are satisfied before setting phase status.
3. Update `plans/{{plan_id}}/state.json`:
   - Set this phase `status` to `completed` only when every completion check is satisfied.
   - If any check is unmet (including any AI-review finding), keep this phase non-completed as `blocked` or `failed` so execution stops until fixed.
   - Increment this phase `attempts`.
   - Append concise notes (paths/decisions).
   - Keep task `status` as `in_progress` while handing off to Forge checks.
4. Forge will run backend checks after your phase is marked complete.
   - Forge finalizes phase/task completion statuses after checks.
   - If checks fail, Forge reopens the phase and you retry.
   - If checks pass on the last phase, Forge creates the task commit and records `commit_sha`.
5. Do NOT run `git` commands yourself in execute mode.
   - Do NOT run `git add`, `git commit`, `git commit --amend`, or `git push`.
   - Do NOT set `commit_sha` in `state.json`; Forge manages it.
6. End your message with this exact single line marker:

```text
[[cm_forge:done plan={{plan_id}} task={{current_task_id}} phase={{current_phase_id}}]]
```
   - Use the exact `plan/task/phase` values shown above. Do not reuse marker values from a previous task or phase.

---

## After implementation - update state

Update `plans/{{plan_id}}/state.json` following these rules:

1. Keep your task's `status` as `in_progress` while implementing (or `failed` if truly stuck after multiple attempts)
2. Write `notes` explaining what you did - file paths, decisions, config values. The next
   iteration has no memory of you; these notes are its only link to your work.
3. Update `summary` - orient a newcomer: what's done, what's next (max 300 chars)
4. Increment your task's `attempts` count
5. Do NOT change any other task's status
6. Do NOT modify `plan.json` - it is immutable
7. Do NOT set `commit_sha`; Forge writes it after final-phase checks pass.

If you learned something useful beyond this task (a gotcha, a project convention,
a tool quirk), append a one-liner to `plans/{{plan_id}}/progress.md`:

```text
- {{date}} iter {{iteration}}: <what you learned>
```
